---
title: Dr. Borg
headerImg: cactus-flower.jpg
---

Professor Albert Borgmann and I first met--i.e., he first scared the bejeezus out of me--probably in 1996. I think it was about then that I was a sophomore in college, and I think it was in my sophomore year that I got roped in to taking a class called, simply, Kant. I didn't want to take it. I had read the Critique of Practical Reason in high school and my best friend at that time was a deontologist, if you can imagine such a thing in high school. I wasn't really interested in the German Enlightenment, though. Plus I had heard scary things about Dr. Borgmann. And, man, he lived up to all of the horror stories.

Dr. Borgmann comes from the European school, so he thinks it's a good idea, at the beginning of each session, to ask a student chosen at random to give a coherent summary of what was discussed in the previous session. This is really scary for an American unaccustomed to being expected to actually review her notes well in advance of a test and be able to speak coherently about Immanuel Kant.   

I later went on to take several courses from Dr. Borgmann. He never really ceased to scare me, but his classes were challenging and rigorous and unbelievably invigorating. I learned a lot from him, lessons that shaped me deeply, so Big Al, this one's for you.

Borgmann, who once, after I gave one of those previous-class summaries, said, "Well, something is better than nothing, but that wasn't good."

Borgmann, who once broke into the opening of "California Dreamin'" ...in Kant. 

Borgmann, who told me my Kant paper was "dutiful" but meant it as a criticism and didn't seem to find that ironic.

Borgmann, who is rumored to have played Bob Dylan songs (and "California Dreamin'"?) on his guitar at philosophy department "hootenannies." I kid you not.

Borgmann, who jogs daily at lunch, yet never, ever gets muddy, sweaty, or wet, so fastidious is he.

Borgmann, who insists that being burdened is a good thing. And he's right.

Borgmann, who seems so staid and serious yet advocates broadly for communal celebrations.

Borgmann, who once read a Goethe poem in German in class, knowing few of us understood German, just so we could get a feel for what Goethe should sound like. 

Borgmann, who several times urged me to call him Albert. I could not.

Borgmann, who is a sincere Catholic and has a deep and genuine compassion for humanity and humans.

Borgmann, who always wears a suit and tie and has perfectly controlled hair, no matter what.

Borgmann, who told me he was disappointed I was going on to grad school in linguistics, because my mind belonged in philosophy, as if I couldn't do both. Pfft.

Dr. Borgmann, I would love to attend your classes forever. I wish everyone could.