---
title: Hyper Color
headerImg: dashfeet.jpg
---

This is by way of confession and need for absolution.

Senior year of high school, AP English class. We're reading The Handmaid's Tale by Margaret Atwood. If you're not already familiar wiht the story, go read the novel. Seriously, you should have read it a long time ago, and this can wait.

Teacher is trying to get the class to engage in discussion of the serious themes in the book, but, you know, it's high school, and we're all embarrassed, at least the girls are, and the boys aren't going to talk about the philosophical implications of the society in the book, because that would involve uncomfortable discussions about gender, biology, and the nature of human autonomy and dignity. 

One kid, and we'll call him Bront here, he wears these [Hypercolor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypercolor) shirts all the time. You can tell when he's hot; it's right there on his shirt.

The teacher is repeatedly failing to engage the class in any meaningful discussion, but Bront's over there getting all hot in his damned t-shirt. My best friend and I look at each other, and I raise my hand, and say, as earnestly as possible, "It wouldn't be so bad if men were the sex slaves, though. I'll take Bront."

Teacher turns bright red. Bront turns 100 shades of red and purple and his damn t-shirt lights up like the Fourth of July. 

For weeks, my BFF and I took turns making such comments, remarking on the colorful state of his clothing, on his attractively blushing cheeks, wondered aloud if the way he walked signaled something about the size and relative health of his reproductive tract, whether he was a slut or was likely to have preserved his chastity and cleanliness from disease for his mistresses once the sexual enslavement of men had begun.

I'm abbreviating this greatly. They are all little comments, but they add up. Over time, the fact that he can't ever go to English class and know that he will be comfortable and free from such comments and girls tittering while speculating about the health and size of his genitals slowly eats at him and gradually makes the other boys uncomfortable. No one in that class wears Hypercolor after a while.

Teacher doesn't do anything except occasionally make a milquetoast statements about how something we say may have been inappropriate, but mostly she's in on the joke. She knows. She knows we girls have gone through what we are putting the boys through, in all our classes, for probably 4 or 5 years now. In fact, we've gone through somewhat more because we never actually touch Bront, whereas we have all been touched. 

At the time, in my afterschool job, the manager had developed some technique for flicking one finger on a girl's back and somehow undoing her bra, and he used to do this to us while we were standing at the cash register with a full line of people so that we couldn't excuse ourselves to go fix it. Bront got off easy. And yet, it stuck with him, at least for a few years. 

I feel bad about it sometimes, though. Bront was never the problem. He was just an easy target because he blushed a lot and wore those shirts. 

But

........

Easy target because of what you wear sounds too familiar.

