---
title: Yoshi Yoshi
headerImg: katori.jpg
---

Yoshifumi was the guy who had the good fortune to spend 30 days with me and my cat in a Ford Festiva, driving around the country looking for a party. For that, he really attained a best friend status, but we are starting to lose touch. He's in Japan still, and it just happens. I have no doubt he'll pop up once in a while, but until then, a few posies.

Yoshifumi once said of okra, "If it's not slimy, it's shit."

Yoshifumi keeps a notebook to collect different ways of telling someone their fly is open, in as many languages as possible.

Yoshifumi drinks girly cocktails, completely without embarrassment. In fairness, he does everything without embarrassment, which I admire.

Yoshifumi gets really drunk on those girly cocktails and then takes his pants off. *A lot.* And then his girlfriend curses him, but he doesn't care, he doesn't change, and they never break up. 

Yoshifumi believes he can tap quickly and reliably into the culture of a nation by going to a cheap barber shop and getting his hair cut however the barber wants to cut it. Inevitably he cannot communicate with the barber at all, and so inevitably he does actually get an iconic hairstyle. In Mexico, when we went, he came out looking like Eric Estrada.

Yoshifumi got so excited when my Uncle Pedro fed him hot dogs, pork-n-beans, and raw, sliced tomatoes fresh out of the garden, because he believed this was the *American* meal he had been missing out on all those years.

Yoshifumi speaks English well, including slang, but somehow misunderstands the term "_____ rocks" so much that he thinks Billy Joel might be an appropriate person to fill in the blank. I state, now and forever, Billy Joel does not rock.

Yoshifumi forced me to listen to the Stray Cats during our entire drive through Tennessee, except once while he was sleeping and I put on The King. When we went to Sun Studios, I took his picture under the picture of the Stray Cats.

Yoshifumi really wanted to eat crawfish. Apparently he used to have crawfish for pets (??!!???!??!?!?!??!)

Yoshifumi loves geography. He took pictures of the license plates and outstanding geographical features ("Hey, is that a mesa? This is the first mesa I've ever actually seen. Stop the car.") of every state we went through (and some license plates, obviously, of states we didn't go through). This was allegedly so that he could show these to his classes when he became a geography teacher back in Japan to make it more real for them. I doubt he will ever be a geography teacher, though. Now he works in sales...of odometers.

Yoshifumi has a big round face that looks open, innocent, and very childlike. He is open and accepting and nonjudgmental, but don't let that innocent look fool you. Trust me on this one.

Yoshifumi, on our trip around the country, kept putting the road atlas up in visor, and it kept falling on him. It would fall out of the visor, and he would just put it back again. Over and over, for more than 1500 miles and one month of travel. I laughed at him all the time for doing this. Finally one time he said that he thinks this is the essence of being Japanese: it doesn't work well, but you just keep doing it the same. 

Our trip involved taking off from Missoula, Montana, heading over to Chicago, down to Memphis and Little Rock and then on to New Orleans, across to Galveston and Austin and the Texas Hill Country, over through New Mexico, up to Las Vegas, and then through Mormon Country to home. It was the two of us and a cat. The cat was cool with it. She could, in fact, use the litter box while we were driving, which I thought was pretty awesome of her. Yoshifumi was cool with it all, too. He was the ideal traveling companion for such a trip, really. He's the one who had the Japanese travel guide to America that let us find the Tokyo Hotel in Chicago which was the scariest hotel I've ever stayed in, I'm pretty sure, but I'm so glad we stayed there. Nothing would have been as cool without him along.