---
title: First Kiss
headerImg: cactus-flower.jpg
---

My first kiss was, I suppose, in third grade. 

The boy was the goalkeeper of my soccer team. I played defense, so we spent a lot of time together in the back. He used to pick dandelions for me from the field. Fortunately our forwards were fairly good, so the ball didn't come our way inordinately often. Not enough to break up our little idyll.

I remember one day at recess he told me that one of the boys on our team liked me. I begged him to tell me. We played this game where he would tell me a letter that was somewhere in his name, and then I had to guess all the boys whose name had that letter. It was maddening, especially since his name kept coming up but he denied it. When the bell rang, he told me to go to the tires (you know, those tractor tires that playgrounds used to always have that are set on end and partially buried, making a kind of shelter or...I don't know what those are all about because they're not really fun, but in southern New Mexico, they made shelters from the sun), and he would leave a note telling me who liked me. 

So I did. And, of course, it was his name, spelled out with rocks. I guess he skipped lunch to write it. And then he walked up behind me and asked me what I thought or something. 

He was the cutest guy on our team, easily, plus there was the whole dandelion-picking business, so obviously, I immediately began planning our wedding. We sat in the tire and experimented with dangerous adult things like holding hands all that recess.  And then we kissed, an electromagnetic peck on the lips. 

Sadly, he moved shortly thereafter, and so my wedding plans had to be canceled. I swore off men forever, too, at least until I met James in fourth grade. 